# Breast-Cancer-Proteomes
Dividing breast cancer patients into separate sub-classes

This dataset has taken from Kaggle's datasets. The purpose of this work is to divide breast cancer patients into separate sub-classes. However initially the data will be used for feature analysis. Then using K-means clustering, I will look at the patient clusters and try to compare the results with the clinic data. Following description is taken from Kaggle's dataset page.

# Context: 
This data set contains published iTRAQ proteome profiling of 77 breast cancer samples generated by the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (NCI/NIH). It contains expression values for ~12.000 proteins for each sample, with missing values present when a given protein could not be quantified in a given sample.

# Content:

# File: 77_cancer_proteomes_CPTAC_itraq.csv

RefSeq_accession_number: RefSeq protein ID (each protein has a unique ID in a RefSeq database)
gene_symbol: a symbol unique to each gene (every protein is encoded by some gene)
gene_name: a full name of that gene Remaining columns: log2 iTRAQ ratios for each sample (protein expression data, most important), three last columns are from healthy individuals

# File: clinical_data_breast_cancer.csv

First column "Complete TCGA ID" is used to match the sample IDs in the main cancer proteomes file (see example script). All other columns have self-explanatory names, contain data about the cancer classification of a given sample using different methods. 'PAM50 mRNA' classification is being used in the example script.

# File: PAM50_proteins.csv

Contains the list of genes and proteins used by the PAM50 classification system. The column RefSeqProteinID contains the protein IDs that can be matched with the IDs in the main protein expression data set.
